# cvdp_copilot_nbit_swizzling_0001

Category: cid003
Difficulty: easy

## Prompt
Design a System Verilog module `nbit_swizzling` that performs selective bit-reversal with `sel` input signal. The module should take a `DATA_WIDTH`-bit wide input and reverse the bits in the following configurations based on a 2-bit selection signal `sel`.


##### Interface of Module `nbit_swizzling`

#### Parameter
- The default value of `DATA_WIDTH` is 64.
#### Inputs
- `data_in([DATA_WIDTH-1:0])`: Input data of size `DATA_WIDTH`
- `sel([1:0])`: 2-bit selection signal 

#### Outputs
- `data_out([DATA_WIDTH-1:0])`: Output data of size `DATA_WIDTH` 

#### Specification
#### 1. Operation
- When `sel` = 0, reverse the entire input.
- When `sel` = 1, divide `data_in` into two equal sizes of bit arrays and reverse each half separately.
- When `sel` = 2, divide `data_in` into four equal sizes of bit arrays and reverse each section individually.
- When `sel` = 3, divide `data_in` into eight equal sizes of bit arrays and reverse each section individually.
- In the default case, the output should match the input.
#### 2. Constraints
- The `DATA_WIDTH` must be greater than or equal to 16 and multiples of 8.
- Assume that `data_in` will always handle of 1s and 0s. Therefore, there is no need to handle invalid input cases explicitly.
- The design must follow combinational logic

#### Example

`DATA_WIDTH`: 16

```wavedrom
 
{"signal": [
  { "name": "data_in[DATA_WIDTH-1:0]", "wave": "x.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.x", "data": ["2a5c","2cbe","2df9","32cb","34d0","47f6","410a","2859"] },
  { "name": "sel[1:0]", "wave": "x.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.x", "data": ["0","0","1","1","2","2","3","3"] },
  { "name": "data_out[DATA_WIDTH-1:0]", "wave": "x.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.=.x", "data": ["3a54","7d34","b49f","4cd3","c2b0","2ef6","8205","14a6"] },
{ "name": "DATA_WIDTH", "wave": "x.=...............x", "data": ["16"] }
],
"head": {
"text": "Module:: nbit_swizzling, data_in and data_out represented in hex format"
}
}

```

## Expected Output Files
- rtl/nbit_swizzling.sv
